Continuing building the story section
that we've been building in the last lecture,
we will now implement this hover affect
that we have here.
So as soon as we hover a story,
we have two things going on in that image.
So first take a look and see what the image is doing.
So basically the image is zooming out.
And then we have the text moving in.
And also the image getting blurred.
So, the image moved away and blurs,
and the text moves up and fades in.
Okay, and so, that's a really nice effect I thought.
And so, I included here in the course.
So, let's start by adding the text actually,
which will be our fig caption here.
So, a special HTML element for captions
for figures.
So fig
caption, and I'm calling it story caption very simply.
And so, let's just put the name of the person here.
And it was Mary Smith.
Mary Smith.
All right, now, where do we want this caption
to be located?
Well, we want it to be exactly on top of the image.
So, nicely centered on top of the image.
Let's take a look at that again.
So here, it's exactly in the middle
both vertically and horizontally.
So let's do that.
And I'm sure you can guess it,
we use position absolute.
And then you can also guess that we need to set
the container to position relative.
And the container is in this case the story shape.
So position relative.
And then here it's the same thing as always.
So, top 50%.
Left 50%.
And then translate.
Minus 50%, and minus 50%.
And this time I don't have to explain again to you
why this works this way.
All right, so,
the color of the text was white.
With upper case,
also with a nice font size, let's say 1.7 rem.
And, of course, the text in there, in this box,
should also be centered.
Okay, so let's take a look at that now.
All right, so it's nicely in the center here.
Now, what we want here to happen actually
is why we hover this box here.
So the story is that this here moves up
to the position and fades in.
So what this means is that before we hover it,
it actually needs to be invisible,
and it needs to be further down to this direction.
So, down here so that it can then move up.
So, we should translate it down.
But actually we already have the translate here.
So it's minus 50 and minus 50.
And so, here on the epsilon coordinate,
we can actually put zero again because then it would be
a bit further down.
You see, so now it's in here.
And we could put it even more down if we wanted.
We could say like, I don't know, 20%, for example.
And then it would move down even further.
And then we just set the opacity to zero.
And so, this is the initial state before we actually
do the hover animation.
Now, where does this hover actually occur?
As we said, it's right here on the story.
And so, we say
story, so as soon as the story is hovered,
then we want to change the caption.
Right, make sense?
So, and what do we want to change?
Well, the opacity to one, of course.
Antitransform
should translate in y to
minus 50%.
Okay, and why is that?
Well, it's because the minus 50%
is what we had here before.
Okay, so remember the initial position was
with this here at minus 50.
But that's not what we want.
But it's what we want after we hover on the story.
Now, I see a stupid mistake here once again.
So it is hover, obviously it's hover.
So, I just invented a new pseudoclass there.
So let's just see if it works.
But not before, of course, animating it as well.
So transition,
let's say all here and 0.5 seconds.
So let's check it out now.
And, well, that's not exactly what we wanted.
But I think I know what the problem is here.
And it is because we didn't have the exact same
transform here.
So it should be this exact translate.
So not translate here, then translate y here.
So instead, we should have this.
And so, this is really minus 50% it goes.
All right.
Yep, so that's what we want, right?
Oh, and you saw that that movement here in the end,
so that little shaking, let me show it to you again.
So what you see at the end, it moved a little bit.
So let's add once again back face visibility
to this element.
So, remember we did this in the header as well.
Just to fix this small glitch.
And so, now it should be gone.
Yup.
I don't know if you saw it before,
but it was definitely there.
It moved like one pixel to the right side
or to the left.
And so, now that is absolutely gone.
And so, now the second part of this animation
is this image, which blurs and moves away.
And actually I see that this image here is
is in a different position, so this lady here
is nicely centered.
Well, in here, she's not, so let's take care of that.
And let me show you why that happens.
So this is where this image is.
You see this blue box?
That's where the image is.
And so, I guess we should translate the image itself
to be more in the center of the figure, right?
So let's do that, so let's translate
this image a little bit.
And where is it?
Here, so transform,
translate x, and let's say minus four rem.
And so, now we can work on that effect
that we just saw.
So again is when we hover the story.
And then what we want to change is actually the image.
Okay, and the first thing that happened was
that it basically it zoomed out.
And, well, that looks a bit strange.
So, somehow, because of this translation
that we did here, it cut out this thing,
so let's fix that, and what's going to fix that
is once again back face visibility hidden.
Okay, so, whatever we're dealing with these
kind of animations and translating stuff,
when something weird happens,
then many times this back face visibility fixes that.
And again, as I explained here before,
I guess no one really knows why it happens this way.
Or why this works this way,
but what matters is that it actually does work.
So, okay.
I found this out myself also the hard way
through a lot of experimenting and searching
on stack overflow and all that stuff.
And so, now I can teach that to you.
So, just to make sure again how this works.
We zoom out the image when we hover.
So what that means is that initially
we have to zoom in a bit.
So scale it, basically, and then when we hover,
set the scale to a lower value,
so that it happens like this.
Basically we scaled the image down.
So let's do that, so in an initial state,
we need to add some scale here.
Let's say it's at 140%, so 1.4.
And then as soon as we hover the image.
We want it to be, well, let's actually copy it.
Okay, and then we want it at one
as soon as we hover it.
And so, that should work now.
So, let's go to our version.
And, indeed, all we have to add of course
is now this transition.
So it's the same as this one, so let's just copy it.
And here we go.
Very nice.
So, that looks nice already.
Now all we have to do is to add that blur.
And actually it's not only blur, but it also gets
a bit darker as image, as we hover it.
So take a look, it gets a bit darker.
Maybe you didn't see is right away,
but actually it did get a bit darker.
And so, let's learn about filters.
So there's a very nice CSS property,
which is simply called filter.
And in there, you have a lot of different filters
that you can apply.
So, let's use blur.
And use three pixels.
And again, I'm gonna show you different values
in the dev tools, then in the inspector.
And then also since we want to make it darker,
let's say we want brightness.
Put in a value lower than 100% makes it darker,
and a value above 100% makes it brighter basically.
And so, that should do the trick.
So, that's it, it's blurred.
And it is darker than it was before.
So, let me now show you some different values.
So, this is where the hover is applied.
So, we can go to the dev tools.
Hit this one here, and then on hover.
And so, now we can see it hovered even without
actually hovering it with the mouse.
And then here we see our CSS styles.
So we can blur it even more.
So this is what it looks like when it's
even really blurred.
So we have three, six also looks great.
But let's leave it at this.
And then in here, so 100 is the original.
We put it at 80, but we can make it really dark
if we want, or really bright, something like this.
And there are of course other filters.
So we have blur, brightness, contrast,
and gray scale, hew rotate, let's check that one out.
50%, or maybe it's in degrees actually, if it's rotate.
50 degrees.
So, you see there's a difference there.
So, lots of filters here going on.
You could give it more opacity, saturate it,
put a CPF filter.
And so, you can definitely experiment with those.
So, all right, this is already completed.
Now, all we have to do is to add
the second box below it.
And then also that small button that we have here.
So, this one.
So that shouldn't be all too hard.
Let's just head over to the HTML.
And add another one of these rows.
So, a number nine this time.
This person is called Jack Wilson.
And then let's just change this text while
my live is completely different now.
All right, and that should work already.
Yep, so, no surprises here.
It works just as before.
And now just a small button here
just to make it really complete.
So this is pretty similar to the one
that we had before in here.
So here we had this green button going on.
This time we want the other button.
So we have the button green and the normal button,
and then I think the other one is called button text.
Let's see if that works.
I'm not really sure, let's check it out here in the button.
So, button text, so only one dash there
because it's not a modifier, it's just a different name.
So button text, and then read all stories.
And then again that right arrow that I showed you
in another lecture, so right arrow.
Okay, and so, that looks pretty good.
And if you take a look now and compare it to our original
version, all that's left to do now is to add
this background video, but that will be a separate lecture.
So part three of building this sector.
So, see you then.